Classification is a supervised learning approach where a specific label is provided to the machine. Here the machine needs proper testing and training for the label verification. It is a supervised learning approach. It uses a training dataset. It uses algorithms to categorize the new data as per the observations of the dataset. In classification, there are labels for training data. Its objective is to find which class new object belongs to form the set of predefined classes.It is more complex as compared to clustering.

Regression analysis the output variable must be of continous value. In Regression, we try to find the best fit line, which can predict the output more accurately.Regression algorithms can be used to solve the regression problems such as Weather Prediction, House price prediction, etc. The regression Algorithm can be further divided into Linear and Non-linear Regression. The regression Algorithm can be further divided into Linear and Non-linear Regression.


Clustering or cluster analysis is a machine learning technique, which groups the unlabelled dataset. It can be defined as "A way of grouping the data points into different clusters, consisting of similar data points. The objects with the possible similarities remain in a group that has less or no similarities with another group."It does it by finding some similar patterns in the unlabelled dataset such as shape, size, color, behavior, etc., and divides them as per the presence and absence of those similar patterns. It is an unsupervised learning method, hence no supervision is provided to the algorithm, and it deals with the unlabeled dataset. After applying this clustering technique, each cluster or group is provided with a cluster-ID. ML system can use this id to simplify the processing of large and complex datasets. The clustering technique is commonly used for statistical data analysis.

Market Basket Analysis is a data mining technique used by retailers to increase sales by better understanding customer purchasing patterns. It involves analyzing large data sets, such as purchase history, to reveal product groupings and products that are likely to be purchased together. Implementation of market basket analysis requires a background in statistics and data science and some algorithmic computer programming skills.

Recommendation System A machine learning algorithm known as a recommendation system combines information about users and products to forecast a user's potential interests. These systems are used in a wide range of applications, such as e-commerce, social media, and entertainment, to provide personalized recommendations to users.